---
title: "[Testing-QA] Introduction to Fundamentals of Testing"

categories:
  - Testing-QA
tags:
  - [Testing]

toc: true
toc_sticky: true

date: 2024-05-17
last_modified_at: 2024-05-17
---

{% capture notice-2 %}

📋 Here are the notes summarizing what I learned from the course!

  {% endcapture %}

<div class="notice--danger">{{ notice-2 | markdownify }}</div>

<br>


# Introduction to Fundamentals of Testing

## Fundamentals of Testing
- **Purpose of Testing**: To identify defects, ensure software meets the requirements, and assess its readiness for deployment.
- **What is Testing**: Testing involves activities both static (like reviews) and dynamic (like executing the software) to ensure correctness, efficiency, and usability of software products.

## What is Quality?
- **Definition of Quality**: The degree to which a software system meets specified requirements or user/customer expectations.
- **Aspects of Quality**:
  - **Measurable Attributes**: Characteristics like response time and throughput.
  - **Fitness for Use**: The software's ability to perform its intended functions satisfactorily.
  - **Value for Money**: The software's cost-effectiveness in fulfilling user needs.

## Testing Principles
- **Presence of Defects**: Testing can show that defects are present but cannot prove that no defects exist.
- **Exhaustive Testing**: It is impossible to test all configurations and scenarios, making strategic testing essential.
- **Early Testing**: Starting tests early in the software development life cycle can prevent complex and costly defects later.
- **Defect Clustering**: A small number of modules may contain the majority of defects.
- **Pesticide Paradox**: Repeatedly running the same set of tests will eventually no longer find new defects.
- **Context Dependency**: Testing should be adapted based on the environment and expected use.
- **Absence of Errors Fallacy**: Even software without detected defects may not fulfill user needs if it doesn’t meet user requirements.

## Testing Goals
- **Validation Testing**: Confirms that the software meets the needs and expectations of the users, ensuring it is fit for use.
- **Verification Testing**: Ensures the software operates according to the specified functional and non-functional requirements.

<br>

---

<br>

[Back to Top](#){: .btn .btn--primary }{: .align-right}
